when a new player joins the oldest
anarchy server in Minecraft their first
objective is to survive this means
getting as far away as possible from the
waste land known as spawn finding
another portal and braving the dangerous
highways is usually the quickest way to
success as these highways go all the way
to the world border but what about the
roads less traveled
specifically the overworld highways
while a much safer option they are not
traveled as frequently as their nether
counterparts and they don't receive as
much player maintenance if they are used
players will often branch off of them
after just a few thousand blocks of
walking the highways are littered with
ruins of towns rest stops farms and
other creations so today we are going on
a road trip on the western highway the
least traveled of the four major
roadways on the overworld is it all
completely destroyed or other signs of
civilization farther down the road I
don't even know how far out this highway
goes so we could be walking for an hour
or maybe even 20 it's time to find out
so buckle up grab a beverage and hit
that subscribe button
it's roadtrip time but before we get
started today I'd like to thank Ray Khan
for sponsoring today's video I actually
have a pair of ray Khan earbuds and I
love these things
they're my go-to earbuds for the gym and
when I'm at home playing Minecraft the
sound quality is just as amazing as the
other top brands and they're only half
the price the ones I'm using are the
everyday e25 so their best ones yet six
hours of playtime seamless bluetooth
pairing more bass available in multiple
colors and their compact design helps to
get rid of background noise I also like
the fact that you can click either
earbud with a finger to pause your music
makes it super convenient if you need to
stop for some reason go to buy recon
comm slash fit MC for 15% off your order
I've left a link in the description for
you if you need it now then let's get
started
I hope you're ready for this road trip
because I sure AM we are at the very
start of the Western highway if you're
talking coordinates it goes in the
negative x-direction now as I mentioned
previously I have no idea how far this
highway actually goes we have just
passed over the great spawn trench which
is about 2,000 blocks away from spawn
and we're gonna head west so who knows
what kind of ruins were gonna find along
this road looks like a giant vortex
coalition symbol made out of obsidian at
least what's left of it I've seen a lot
of those symbols on this highway so far
you may have noticed that I'm walking
right now even though I have my elijah
equipped that's because I actually want
to walk the first 50 thousand blocks and
then use a light truck at 3,200 blocks
we've come across the first town well I
should say the ruins of the first town
and this is a prime example of why you
do not build this close to spawn and
this close to a highway at the same time
but look at the vines coming down from
all the blocks it's actually kind of a
cool touch makes it seem like legit
ruins as we go along you may notice the
roads have a lot of obsidian in them
this is because it makes it easier to
place crystals to attack people but also
because it's just a durable highway
material coming up on the 8,000 mile
stone right here eight thousand blocks
we've traveled on foot and there's some
banners here some signs but not a whole
lot going on you know we need to get
farther out to find the good stuff we
are almost at the 10,000 block mark of
the highway and the terrain is starting
to get a little bit more normal
I say a little bit but it's still too
e2t so it's pretty wrecked but who knows
what we're gonna find from this point on
I'm excited this is the actual 10,000
block milestone wait I've seen this paw
print symbol before but I just can't
quite put my finger on it right now that
is a lot of hoppers normally I would ask
why but on this server sometimes it's
better not to ask any questions the
15,000 block milestone and there's a lot
of signs here okay so even though this
is the least traveled of the major
overworld highways there's still a lot
of player activity here
which is very interesting to see so that
tells me there's probably a lot more to
this highway farther on down the road
check this out huh
sorry cracky comics this is not the end
not even close we have a long ways to go
yet
after 16,000 blocks we have finally
located the first legitimate food source
on the highway itself that's crazy so if
you were just walking out a spawn
brand-new you'd have to go 16,000 blocks
just for that melon I feel like there's
easier ways to get food near spawn check
that out the ruins of an old castle
right off the highway and all things
considered even though the bottom of it
is completely blown up it's in great
shape that is very cool a nice sight to
see on this abandoned highway at 21,000
blocks we have what appears to be our
very first non griefed structure Wow so
it only took 21,000 blocks to find a
little bit of civilization here not bad
let's take a look inside
wait the signs are in Russian that's
interesting at 26,000 blocks we appear
to have a pretty well renovated rest
area here I mean it's completely flat
into the roads in great condition it
looks like there's a tree farm over here
Wow okay so this seems to be one of the
most intact rest stops we found so far
it looks like there was a build over
here that's been kind of griefed but I
mean otherwise it's it's in great shape
it's nice to see some level of
maintenance on this highway that would
be an end crystal oh my god right next
to all these signs whoever did this was
a jerk the minute that end crystal blows
up all the signs are gonna be gone all
that is a cruel trick to play but I
suppose if you had a piston you could
probably push the crystal way to
detonate it that's a lot of work though
for just one crystal like that but the
pathway continues here it's mainly
cobblestone now there's no obsidian in
the road so we're definitely getting far
out don't make me cry twenty-eight
thousand blocks we've got another
building here that seems pretty well
intact despite being right next to the
highway and there's this undergrad
hallway that goes underneath the lake
that the base is built next to and it
looks like it's built with pretty
rudimentary materials like cobblestone
wood planks etc down here in the
basement there is a wheat farm and it
looks like they've done a really nice
job of replanting whoever was
maintaining this farm has done a very
good job
look at that 30 K milestone it's made
out of like a hodgepodge of materials
like netherrack cobblestone but hey a
milestone is a milestone I ventured a
couple hundred blocks off the highway
and found this
the first intact town we've seen along
the western highway this is cool it's
like all igloos a winter themed town you
know this is this is the kind of stuff
that I don't normally get to see so I'm
glad I've been making this trip Diamond
tools yeah I doubt it I highly doubt it
yep nothing just as I thought this tent
has a ton of signs on it it should be
able to tell us how old this winter town
is and it looks like it's just over a
year old
so this town has managed to survive an
entire year despite being incredibly
close to the Western highway whoever
built this I give you props this is an
incredible town for being so close to a
roadway coming up here another on grief
structure here at 33,000 on the highway
alright so as we get farther along there
seems to be more and more stuff that is
intact right immediately next to the
highway this house is not as lucky as
that rest stop we just passed I mean to
be fair why would you build your house
literally right next to the highway
what's wrong with you man whatever that
is in the distance it's huge so we need
to go check it out this tunnel leads
right underneath the lake and should
lead us right to that farmhouse or
whatever that thing is just as I thought
it's the ruins of a farm but I mean all
things considered it has been grieved a
bit but it's still recognizable so it's
it's a very cool bill
see ooh I hear wither explosions so it
sounds like we might not want to stick
around too long but man and they had
something going all the way down to
bedrock here and what appears to be a
room for satanic rituals okay I'm not
gonna ask any more questions
yep a flaming to be to t sign because
after forty five thousand blocks you may
have forgotten what server you're on
take a look at this ruined town it's
about two thousand blocks shy of the 50k
milestone but there's vines everywhere
there's ender chests and it looks like
some players have stopped here to rest
and eat and drop some items here so
there's definite civilization off in
this direction Wow but hey I mean like I
said it's cool to see a town still so
intact almost to the 50k milestone we
have to go as the sign clearly says and
poop oh god Wow look at that thing
the only word I can use to describe that
lava cast is thick let's take a look at
the inside because that's where the 50k
milestone is and here we are on the
inside and I don't even know what this
used to be was it a town was it an
actual monument who who cares at this
point but we've made it to 50,000 blocks
and it looks like some people have been
here recently so there have been some
travelers that have come through here at
least in the past few months but look at
how much cobble there is in this cast
this thing is massive now that we've
reached 50k it's time to actually fly
with the Elektra this will greatly speed
up the journey so I'm curious how much
more is left to this Highway
I mean it could go on for another 10,000
blocks or maybe even a hundred like I
said I have no idea how long this
highway is it's the only one I don't
know the length of so it's today has
been sort of an experiment if you will
now here's something you don't see every
day a chunk border right on the highway
so we're gonna take a closer look a
chunk border is terrain that is from an
older version of the game and someone's
taken some water poured it over the side
and it's going right over the top of
this long hallway and I like that sign
says I wish I had shaders enabled right
now this is so cool
this is why exploration is one of the
most fun things you can do on this
server because even if you've been on
the server for a long time like I have
you can still see cool stuff like this
I'm glad we've been making this trip
today
at this point in the journey we've gone
so far out that the highway is nothing
more than a single line of cobblestone
so we might be getting close to the end
if it's starting to get like this but oh
hold up oh we got a lava cast rip all
that is a massive lava cast base it's
not uncommon to see players make bases
out of lava cast on to beat CT but you
know to outsiders this kind of thing
might be ugly but there's just something
beautiful about lava casting just the
fact that this can all be accomplished
with just a water bucket and a lava
bucket there's just something
extraordinary another chunk boarder
basically yeah look at this house that's
just teetering right over the edge here
that's pretty funny
Oh hold up oh that's too small to be a
dupe stash we got a bunch of chests
there let's check it out Oh
furnace is going so someone's actually
basing here interesting there's some
enchanted items actually I'll take that
rod why not on this account I don't
really have much um oh there's diamond
items so if you are a new player coming
through here this would be the jackpot
for you sheesh but basing this close to
the highway is never a good idea so
maybe they were just here temporarily
and they'll be heading out soon but I
think we should probably rest here for
the evening I've been on TV to tea for a
few hours now and that is a build of
furnaces you know I've seen enough
furnaces over the past month with
everything that's been happening on this
server I'm good I'm good looks like this
used to be a ship the sales are still
partially intact and then you've got a
manner just right off the side of the
highway here and a pit going all the way
down to bedrock with some farms all
right so this rest stop is still pretty
much in
to act only minor damage no comment no
comment here at 73,000 blocks we have
another rest stop and it just seems that
as we get farther out now it's just more
and more desolate so I get the feeling
that we might be getting close to the
end of the highway finally and the roads
going up and down now and it's made out
of dirt this is wait no this isn't the
end is it what how there no no no
there's no way that could be the actual
end of the highway that would be so
anticlimactic there's this has to be a
joke what do you bet the road was
destroyed and there's more up ahead I
guarantee you this is not the end let's
push forward and there we go I knew it
wasn't the end the road must have been
destroyed that's the only explanation
because there's that huge that's at
least a few hundred blocks long that gap
of ocean with no path so I yeah where
could the end of this highway actually
be but the fact that there's a missing
gap of the highway means we must be
getting close you may have noticed I
skipped 80,000 that's cuz there was no
actual mile so hold up
oh hey acidic energy you left your horse
here at negative 80,000 on the highway
man I love having this hack enabled it
lets me see who original mob owners
actually are but that person's not
online so negative eighty thousand four
hundred it looks like this is the actual
end of the road look at the signs can
someone please build a road it says I've
scouted several thousand blocks ahead
and sure enough that was the actual end
of the road there's nothing else out
here just people popping out of the
nether just to see what's on the
overworld at this point so while the
Western Highway the least traveled
highway goes 80,000 blocks that's a long
distance even for the shortest least
traveled highway now we know but this
was a fun road trip today that it was
fun to do this kind of video it was a
nice change of pace
and if you haven't already make sure to
hit that subscribe button and leave a
like also make sure to follow me on
Twitter and Instagram to stay updated on
when new minecraft content is coming out
well that's it for today everyone take
it easy and we'll see you next time
[Music]